### Reflection

This application visualizes the global risk factors that contribute to human death and has well-designed features that provide answers to the research questions outlined in milestone 1 of this project. The app does so well in showing the top risk factors that contribute to global death and those that contribute to the least deaths. It also interactively shows in a choropleth in a geographic distribution on the percentage of death caused by each risk factor in every country in the world. Moreover, the app is so interactive that it allows the users to easily visualize the global death trends for various risk factors from 1990 up to 2017 using interactive features such as dropdown menus, radio buttons, etc.

Based on the feedback we received from TAs and reviews from our peers, we have incorporated several changes into our milestone 2 python project. These include code cleaning and refactoring, code reformating using PEP8 style and directory re-organization. We have also added more in-line comments to enhance code readability. As part of our project maintenance and as suggested by some of our reviewers, we have reduced the length of app functionality description for the homepage of our app deployed in heroku. We also made modifications to the titles of our interractive charts to fully reflect our research questions. This will makes users quickly understand what the chart is trying to portray.

Moreover, our team did some layout modifications such as better alignment of headings for charts and relocating the radio buttons selector from the bottom of tab 3 to the top of the chart. This is to allow users to avoid scrolling all the way down to make selections for the risk factors.

On the other hand, there were few other suggestions from peers that we decided not to incorporate at this time since they conflicted with our core research questions. These included, not including all the risk factors in to our charts, as we only selected the top five risk factors required by our research question 1. We also decided to stick to year 2017 for our charts in tabs one and three as required by our research questions 2 and 3 of our project.

Besides, since the development team was limited on time, this app has several limitations when it comes to adding advanced features. First of all, adding a jumbotron button could have been added but the different spreadsheet it uses brought us difficulty. Second, Manipulating the dash font type and colours were difficult, this was indicated in-dash Plotly platform that such feature is under development. Another limitation is that our overview interactive horizontal bar chart is currently for 2017 only as indicated in our research question, but a doesn't have a range slider that allows the user to pick a year of interest.

As such, several future improvements could be made which includes the following. The bar graph that shows Overview of the risk factors can have an additional range slider to allow users to choose the range of years they would like to see the overview of deaths caused by the various risk factors. Furthermore, the geo map that shows the World Spread of risk factors could have an additional feature such as generating a summary graph after the user highlights a group of countries. This would allow comparison among countries of interest.
Another improvement is the need to have an additional slider that allows users to choose the range of years for the Trend chart. This would enable users to choose any range of years while selecting the risk factor of their choice from the radio buttons which is currently implemented.

Overall, all the feedback we received from TAs and peers on our milestone1 has also been incorporated where applicable and time permitted. Now, We have redeployed the dashboard application in a manner that fully reflects the received feedback and is aligned with the functionalities promised in our research questions.
